# Battleship
Authors: Frank Schotanus & William Coleman

This is a basic game of battleship. On the menu screen you will have the option to play either normal battleship(1 shot at a time), or SALVO mode. In Salvo mode, players mark 5 grids to hit, after the 5th is placed, you will see which ones are hits and which ones are misses. In the menu, you will also have the option to pull up the rules of the game in a separate JFrame. Finally, you can press exit to exit the application. 

Once the game has started, each player will be prompted to place their ships. Ships may not overlap or go out of bounds(as indicated by red outline). Right click on your mouse to rotate the current ship. Once each player has placed their ships, the game begins. Each player has a tabbed pane to make and view their shots, and another tab to view their own board layout along with their opponents shots. When switching from player to player, no info is leaked, as you must enter the other player's board tab to see their ships. The "End Turn" button must be pressed after each turn to ensure the game is being played at an appropriate pace. There is also a "resign" button that gives the other player the win when pressed. It gives you the option to play again or go back to the menu. Game is best enjoyed in fullscreen, although measures are in place to accomodate resizing/redrawing the JFrame.

We aren't sure what counts for extra credit and what is just considered a part of a good GUI, so here are some of our features. Images, sound effects, background music, ability to pull up rules, resign feature, SALVO mode, ship sink indication, play again feature, return to menu feature, backgroud images, generally pleasing to look at(We think).

For sound effects, we use the playSound() function. In the function we have the line: "File f = new File("battleship/src/"+soundFile);". This is how we get the sound to play in our IDE, we understand it may be different in the jar file. You may need to alter this line(just the quotes) to get the sound to work. Same with images, to load images we do "ImageIcon borderIcon = new ImageIcon( getClass().getResource( "pattern.jpg" ) );" Although we believe this should work in the jar. 
